[Silent Tides]
[Episode 12]
Let's go, Mr. Huang.
Agency Chief Sawa is waiting.
Wait, you went
to spy outside Sawa Agency?
Do you even know
what kind of place that is?
Is that how you
throw your life away?
But I still have to do my job.
Right.
You're the big boss
in the British Army Service Station.
Yesterday, you went
sniffing around
the Bachongtian Club entrance,
asking how many agents are
in their Special Operations Team.
The day before, you were
at Lyun Coeng's warehouse,
trying to find out
what goods they're smuggling.
You think carrying
a vegetable basket is enough
to make people believe
you're a vegetable seller?
If I hadn't diverted those agents,
you'd have been caught
more times than you can count.
Don't you get it?
You're not cut out for this.
Quit while you're ahead.
-Okay?
-You've been tailing me?
You owe me money.
If something happens to you,
who am I supposed to collect from?
Fine.
Thank you, Yang Chang.
I'll remember your advice
and work on improving my skills.
Are you still planning
to go out and cause trouble?
Like I said,
it's my duty.
If you insist on doing this,
could you at least
be smarter about it?
If
you don't know how,
find someone who does.
Find who?
Who, who?
Me!
Alright.
As the Chief of the British Army
Service Station in Macau,
I, Mary Jones,
hereby appoint Mr. Yang Chang
as a covert intelligence operative
for this station.
Mr. Yang Chang,
welcome aboard.
Hold on—
when hiring someone,
shouldn't we discuss the terms first?
How can we start
without agreeing on the conditions?
What terms? Go ahead.
Three points.
First,
what's the pay?
Same as your previous salary
as a marine police officer, acceptable?
But I don't have funds right now—
it'll have to be on credit for now.
Fine.
Interest will be charged separately.
And what you already owe me
will be settled in full later.
Agreed.
Second?
Division of duties.
Well, the man handles
outside affairs,
and the woman manages domestic matters.
From now on,
all external activities—
including reconnaissance,
running errands,
gathering intelligence—
will fall under my responsibility.
You'll
stay at the station,
overseeing logistics and internal affairs.
And third?
Third is management.
Without rules,
nothing gets done properly.
Even a small service station like ours
needs a clear chain of command—
who's in charge,
whose word counts.
So what are you proposing?
You're the station chief,
and I'm the intelligence operative.
So of course you outrank me—
you're the one managing me.
But to ensure smooth operations
and your personal safety,
every decision you make
must be approved
by the intelligence operative.
And every recommendation
from the intelligence operative
must be adopted
and acted upon by the chief.
Why not just say
you want to be the one in charge?
Let's not put it that way.
You're the chief—
you're naturally the boss.
It's just that while you're the manager,
you'll voluntarily
cede all decision-making to me.
So, these 3 points—deal or not?
Deal.
Really?
Yes.
It's official.
[Kiang Wu Elementary School]
Xian,
could you help Yinwan
tidy up a bit more?
I'm heading to the tailor's
to pick up the curtains
and bedsheets we ordered.
Thank you, Mrs. He.
Don't mention it.
Ms. Qiao,
the general affairs office
has prepared
some daily supplies for you.
I'll go get them for you.
Alright, thank you, Yu.
Xian, you've really gone
to so much trouble for us this time.
No trouble at all.
Where should I put these books?
Just on that table, please.
Alright.
This photo album
must be really precious to you.
How could you tell?
On the night we escaped Hong Kong,
your luggage was jostled away
in the crowd,
but you desperately tried
to protect this album no matter what.
I thought then
that the photos inside
must be really important to you.
Would you like to see them?
This is you,
and this is your brother.
Who else?
You two looked quite
alike as children.
Mm-hmm.
My parents passed away
before I could even remember anything.
So it was my brother
who took me along,
wandering everywhere.
When I was 7,
both my brother and I
were taken in
by the Benevolence Orphanage.
Look at this photo—
can you tell our eyes are still swollen?
Right before it was taken,
we'd just finished
crying our eyes out.
Why?
I remember it was Christmas Day.
It was my first time
seeing the priest and Madam,
and I was so scared
that I hid inside a concealed wall.
A concealed wall?
Like the ones
people built in the old days
to guard against bandits and thieves.
A concealed wall.
Oh, I know—
the kind wealthy families
would build in their big houses,
so people could hide inside
if there was danger.
But those concealed walls a
re usually very discreet;
someone could live in a house
for years
without even knowing it existed.
How did you find it?
That concealed wall
was built behind a statue
of the Virgin Mary,
and the switch was actually
one of her shoes.
I stumbled into it completely
by accident—
somehow, I just crawled in.
I remember that day—
the entire orphanage
was turned upside down
searching for me for half the day.
When they couldn't find me,
everyone went to sing hymns
and eat apple pie—
only my brother kept looking.
He must have been exhausted
because he actually crouched
by the wall and started crying.
And that's when he heard me
singing "Moonlight shines"
from inside the wall.
You felt like singing at a time like that?
You have no idea how dark
it was inside that concealed wall—
not a single glimmer of light.
Of course I had to sing
to keep my courage up.
Then what happened?
Then
the priest took this photo
for us afterward.
And the Madam made us apple pie again,
but my brother didn't eat a single bite—
he let me have it all.
Who would've thought?
Your brother
was really good to you.
Yeah.
Even though my parents
were gone so early,
as long as I have my brother,
I've always felt like I have a home.
But
these last two years,
we've been arguing a lot.
Why is that?
It's always
about charity gala for the Resistance.
My brother's afraid the Japanese
might retaliate against me,
so he doesn't want me to go.
I think he's being cowardly,
not manly enough.
We've fought over this
countless times.
You're his closest family—
it's only natural
he doesn't want you taking risks.
[Participated in a school event
with Renyu at age seven.]
I wonder how my brother is doing,
whether he's suffering.
I'm really worried—
with his temperament,
I don't know if he can hold up
if he's fallen into Japanese hands.
Yinwan,
everything will pass.
Yes,
I believe my brother will pull through.
[HSBC, Hong Kong]
Why aren't you eating?
If you're not hungry,
then perhaps we should begin.
General Yazaki,
according to Hong Kong dollar
issuance regulations,
before issuing new banknotes,
all banks
must hold reserve funds
in pounds sterling—
at the fixed exchange rate
of £1 to HK$16—
equivalent to the value
of those notes.
This batch of unsigned banknotes
exceeds 100 million in value,
yet there are no equivalent reserves
to secure the currency's worth.
If issued into circulation,
they would completely destroy
confidence in the Hong Kong dollar
and could even
trigger a severe financial crisis
in regions that use it.
As banking managers,
we simply cannot carry out something
that violates professional ethics
so fundamentally.
Do you understand?
I do not.
Yes.
-Move.
-Let go!
Stop!
There are many HSBC staff
and their families.
From now on,
I will only kill 10 every minute.
Mr. Grayburn,
Mr. Qiao—
whether to issue this batch
of Hong Kong dollars or not,
you still have plenty of time
to think it over.
Five,
four,
three,
two...
Stop!
I'll sign it.
Congratulations.
Welcome. Welcome.
Congratulations!
-Congratulations.
-Congratulations!
Quan.
Mr. Lyu,
long time no see.
What brings you to Macau?
I heard Xian was reopening the bank,
so I rushed over as soon as I could.
Thanks to Xian's trust,
he's keeping me on
at Tai Fung Bank.
That's wonderful.
Chairman Gao,
Mr. Lin—
these two gentlemen are former
colleagues of mine from Hong Kong,
Mr. Lyu
and Mr. Ou.
They're also planning to open a bank
on Avenida de Almeida Ribeiro soon.
Chairman Gao, nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
Chairman Gao.
Greetings, Mr. Lin.
Another bank means another
source of strength.
With all Chinese merchants
pooling our wisdom and efforts,
we can certainly turn
this Avenida de Almeida Ribeiro
into Macau's financial street.
Well said!
Mr. Lin.
Mr. Ma!
Hello, Mr. He.
congratulations!
Welcome.
[Congratulations on the grand opening
of Tai Fung Bank!]
Welcome!
[May your business prosper
and wealth flow abundantly!]
Perfect timing,
everyone—
gather around.
Taking this opportunity
of the grand opening of Tai Fung Bank,
with so many business peers
from Macau gathered here to celebrate,
I'd like to announce
a piece of good news.
Responding to the needs
of Macau's economic development
and the appeals
of our banking colleagues,
and after joint application
by the Macau General Chamber of Commerce
and the Banking Association,
review by the General Economic Bureau,
and special approval by the Governor,
the Macau Financial Exchange
will officially open
on Avenida de Almeida Ribeiro
5 days from now.
Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!
Bravo! Bravo!
[Tai Fung Bank]
Mr. Lok Pak
from the General Economic Bureau
[He Xian, Manager of Tai Fung Bank]
opens an account
with a deposit of 1,000 patacas.
Wonderful! Wonderful! Wonderful.
Mr. Rodrigues, Managing Director
of Banco Nacional Ultramarino,
deposits 2,000 patacas.
Congratulations!
Chairman Gao of the General Chamber
of Commerce opens an account
with a deposit of 5,000 patacas.
The Japanese Specie Bank
arrives to offer congratulations
and opens an account
with a transaction amount
of 10 million patacas.
Allow me to introduce
the new
General Manager
of the Specie Bank's Macau branch,
Mr. Ogata Yozo.
I am the Chairman of Tai Fung Bank.
May I ask the purpose
of Mr. Ogata's visit today?
Today is your grand opening.
As fellow banking professionals in Macau,
it's only fitting for Specie Bank
to attend
[New General Manager
of the Macau Branch of the Specie Bank]
[Ogata Yozo]
and support your business—
a gesture of solidarity
within the industry, if you will.
No need to be formal.
If Specie Bank wishes
to engage in business,
our Manager He will
assist you with the arrangements.
Stock investments,
currency exchange,
and gold and silver conversion.
Let's go with gold conversion.
How much would you like to exchange?
Ten million Hong Kong dollars, converted
into an equivalent amount of gold.
What's the matter?
Does Tai Fung Bank not even handle
the most basic banking operations?
Apologies,
but we've just opened today.
Our inventory doesn't hold
that much gold in reserve.
It's okay—
insufficient physical gold reserves
are common in banking,
and sometimes unavoidable.
In that case,
I'll accept any currency
directly pegged to gold
at equivalent value.
What, can't manage that either?
With all the fanfare
surrounding your opening,
I thought Macau's banking scene
had gained a formidable new player.
That's why I came eagerly
seeking cooperation.
But now it seems
Tai Fung Bank's capabilities
are rather limited.
In that case,
Specie Bank won't press further.
Consider this visit never happened.
Let's go.
It's just a pity that so many
business peers and ordinary depositors,
unaware of the reality,
are opening accounts
and managing their finances
at such an undercapitalized new bank.
I truly can't understand their decision—
I'm genuinely concerned for them.
Who says Tai Fung Bank lacks capability?
Mr. Liang.
Mr. He,
I have a transaction
I'd like to entrust to Tai Fung Bank.
What transaction would that be?
Here are 2.5 million
in Chinese Customs Gold Units.
I'd like to exchange them
for Hong Kong dollars.
No problem, we'll handle that
for you right away.
Would you prefer cash or a deposit?
Deposit.
I trust Tai Fung Bank's
reputation completely—
just deposit it into my account.
Very well.
Then I'll accept the funds.
Excellent.
Quan.
Xian.
Mr. Ogata,
you just said
any currency directly pegged to gold
at equivalent value would be acceptable.
The Chinese National
Government's Customs Gold Units
are directly linked
to gold units in customs.
That should meet
your requirement, correct?
One Customs Gold Unit
can be exchanged for HK$5.26.
We currently have 2.5 million
in Customs Gold Units,
enough to convert
over 13 million Hong Kong dollars.
We accept Specie Bank's
10-million-Hong-Kong-dollar
exchange request.
And
as part of our grand opening promotion,
we'll offer you a 20% discount
on handling fees.
Wonderful! Wonderful! Wonderful.
Bravo!
Mr. Suzuki,
deliver the Hong Kong dollars.
Quan.
Yes?
Mr. Rodrigues,
I heard you have
a significant stock of rubber.
Now that I have the funds,
I'd like to discuss the business.
Sure.
Where would you prefer to talk?
No need to go elsewhere.
Our bank has a private lounge,
which is relatively quiet.
Allow me to show you both there.
Good.
I'd feel most comfortable
conducting business at Tai Fung Bank.
Please.
This way.
All right.
Chief,
we've investigated He Xian.
He's merely a minor shareholder
in Tai Fung Bank,
and his position is just manager—
nothing suspicious about him.
But he was the one
who handled that grain deal last time,
and it ended up
causing us serious trouble.
Now
he's mixed up with people
like Ma Wanqi.
This guy
might not be as simple
as he seems, don't you think?
Wasn't the last incident
already thoroughly investigated?
He was cleared.
Back in Hong Kong, he ran a bank—
now he's just returning to his old trade
to make a living.
He's certainly not working
against the Imperial Army.
Right now,
I don't have time
to worry about a minor manager.
Since you vouch for him,
just focus your surveillance
on Liang Yanming and Rodrigues for now.
Report back immediately
if anything's up.
Yes, sir.
Is there truly no more available?
With a war going on, everyone
in the world is scrambling for rubber.
The biggest rubber-producing region,
Southeast Asia,
was just seized by the Japanese—
supplies are completely cut off.
This is honestly all the stock I have.
But word on the street is
that you bought up the huge stockpile
of Lee Kong Chian,
the Rubber King of Southeast Asia.
If only I had managed to buy it.
I've been pleading
with Lee Kong Chian for years,
hoping to secure the rights
to distribute his rubber.
But he's the famous Rubber King—
he never had any interest
in a small-time Macau merchant like me.
It was't until the Japanese suddenly
attacked Southeast Asia
that he got desperate.
He said whoever could send ships
before the Japanese arrived
would get his stockpile.
The moment I got the message,
I sent my fleet over.
But it was still too late.
What happened
to Lee Kong Chian's stock then?
Before the Japanese takeover,
it was secretly shipped
to Hawaii by U.S. warships
from the Philippines.
That's confidential.
If he hadn't needed
to tell me to recall my fleet,
Lee Kong Chian wouldn't
have even informed me.
On the very day my fleet turned back,
the Japanese arrived.
They're still
searching everywhere for that rubber.
No wonder
Saito from Lyun Coeng
keeps showing up at your company.
He must think
your fleet
transported that rubber.
For some items on the list,
like lubricating oil,
I'll try to source them.
I estimate
I can have everything ready
for you within two weeks,
I guarantee it.
Great.
We'll go back
and prepare the contract then.
We'll exchange payment
and goods on the spot.
[Guangyuan Imports:
Global Selection, Complete Variety]
[Premium Luxury; Rich and Mellow Taste]
[Specie Bank]
The mission assigned to me
by Imperial Headquarters
is to use
the Hong Kong dollars
we obtained at no cost
to seize control of Macau's
financial market in one decisive move.
This will allow the Imperial Army
to dominate Macau's financial sector,
and the Sawa Agency is responsible
for providing its full support
to my efforts.
Understood, Mr. Ogata.
On the very first day,
we exchanged 10 million Hong Kong dollars
that cost us nothing
for genuine Customs Gold Units.
Could there be anything more gratifying?
But
Tai Fung Bank made a strong start today,
and so many Chinese merchants
are eager to join in.
Aren't you worried
they'll band together
and stand against us
while their morale is high?
On the contrary, I'm counting
on that lot
to unite against us.
Otherwise,
who will take on
this over one billion Hong Kong dollars
that will soon become worthless?
And that Liang Yanming,
representing Chongqing,
even exchanged Hong Kong dollars
to buy rubber from Rodrigues.
Let's see how he pulls that off.
[Macau Financial Exchange]
[German Mark: 2.81]
[HKD: 3.80]
[Macau Financial Exchange]
Xian, the latest exchange rate
for HKD to National Currency is 3.75.
3.75?
Yes.
Sell in small amounts, gradually.
Yes!
[HKD: 3.70]
Continue buying.
[HKD: 3.72]
[HKD: 3.69]
[HKD: 3.64]
3.62.
[Current HKD Exchange Rate]
Continue selling.
Yes.
Sell off, keep selling.
[HKD: 3.55]
[Current HKD Exchange Rate]
How much did we take in today?
Nearly 1.5 million.
After all, it's the first day of trading,
and with such a large influx
of Hong Kong dollars,
some people are inevitably eager
to offload.
Once stability returns to the market,
it should rebound.
Mm-Hmm,
we'll just have to keep observing
and adapt as needed.
We only sold off 2 million HKD today,
Mr. Ogata.
At this rate,
how long will it take
to offload the 120 million?
Macau's circulating currency
is the Hong Kong dollar,
and those Chinese merchants don't hold
large amounts of National Currency.
They need time to raise funds.
Colonel, the intricacies
of market manipulation
are beyond the grasp
of an intelligence officer like yourself.
Slowly boiling these Chinese frogs alive
is my specialty,
so you needn't trouble yourself.
[HKD: 3.55]
[HKD: 2.98]
Even with our Tai Fung Bank alone
having taken in
over 5 million Hong Kong dollars,
how can things still be like this?
Most likely, it's because
too much capital has fled Hong Kong
for Macau.
People are still shaken
after the recent blockade,
and with the Japanese
plundering resources in Hong Kong,
businesses have been
buying frantically at any cost
these past few days.
That's the biggest shock to the market.
I'm afraid it's not that simple.
I looked into it—
all the Hong Kong dollars
issued on the market before
were printed
before 1937.
But the ones we've been receiving lately
were all printed after 1937.
Not only are they newly printed,
but there are also
many more 500-dollar notes in circulation.
We've verified repeatedly—
these Hong Kong dollars
are not counterfeit.
Hong Kong had previously released
sample designs for 500-dollar notes.
They were within the planned issuance.
These notes bear
the signatures of the HSBC
chief manager and chief accountant.
HSBC's reputation
wouldn't allow for recklessness.
That may be true in principle,
but since Hong Kong fell,
HSBC has been effectively
in Japanese hands.
If there's any trickery involved,
it's a risk we simply can't control.
Hello.
Mr. Liang.
What?
Because the Hong Kong dollar
has fallen too sharply,
Rodrigues is unwilling to honor
the original contract anymore.
Liang Yanming and
the people from Tai Fung Bank
went to Rodrigues' company.
I don't know what was said there,
but when they came out,
my men reported
that they all looked dejected.
Okay.
See?
Just as I said—
as long as we keep driving
down the Hong Kong dollar,
Liang Yanming's business
will fall through.
But
so far, after selling
just over 20 million,
we've already pushed
the Hong Kong dollar below 3.
And these past few days,
those Chinese merchants
have clearly grown more cautious,
increasingly unwilling to buy in.
Even if we disrupt Liang Yanming's deal,
as long as the Chinese banks
retain some strength,
we won't have full control
over Macau's finances.
That's why
I plan to use
Liang Yanming's stalled business
to provoke those Chinese merchants again,
to squeeze every last drop from them.
Do you have a way
to make them keep buying?
Colonel,
you don't think I only know
how to boil frogs slowly, do you?
Don't worry—
when the heat rises enough
for them to feel the pain,
I'll have the anesthetic ready.
Only then will I turn up the fire
and finish them off decisively.
Take this.
Remember—
read from the script,
and don't get a single word wrong.
[Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation ]
Friends from the press,
in light of the recent circulation
of a small quantity of Hong Kong dollars
[Isogai Rensuke, Japanese
Governor-General of Hong Kong]
with new print years and denominations,
and the unfounded speculation about HSBC
that has arisen as a result,
the Governor's Office
of Hong Kong,
under the Great Japanese Empire,
and HSBC
are jointly holding
this press conference today
to address the matter.
As the Chief Manager of HSBC...
I hereby certify that...
The total issuance of the banknotes
[Robert, Treasurer of HSBC]
strictly amounts
to 10 million Hong Kong dollars.
They carry my personal signature
and that of Chief Accountant Jose.
All Hong Kong dollars issued this time
are backed by sufficient reserves,
making devaluation impossible.
The market is assured to accept
and use them with confidence.
Safe travels.
General!
We have
a problem inside!
What?
Yes.
What exactly happened?
Reporting,
we were ordered
to escort the prisoner back,
but just after exiting
the bank's rear door,
the prisoner suddenly had a heart attack,
so we had to return.
How is he now?
Possibly emotional distress,
but it's not serious—
he's already recovered.
And the other prisoner?
He was still there
when...
we exited the rear door...
Quick, after him.
Apologies.
Let's move, fast.
Please come this way, sir.
Here, you can also pass through
on the right.
Move closer over here.
[British Pound: 80.05]
[French Franc: 4.13]
[HKD: 2.98]
Halt all sell-offs before noon today
and switch to limited buying.
Proceed only after the news
is announced this afternoon.
Understood.
Stop selling,
buy in small lots,
and gradually push the price up.
The situation is clear to everyone now.
When Mr. Liang placed the order
for these wartime supplies
with Rodrigues,
the Hong Kong dollar was still
at 3.8 against the National Currency.
But in just a few short days,
it has fallen below 3.
Rodrigues finds this unacceptable,
which is understandable.
Last night,
after repeated negotiations,
Rodrigues was relatively reasonable.
However, his final condition is
that today's closing price
of the Hong Kong dollar
must be no lower than 3.4—
otherwise, he will have no choice
but to cancel the deal.
Alas.
The troops at the front
are urgently waiting for these supplies,
and the Nationalist government
has even mobilized
its last gold reserves.
Gentlemen,
as the backbone of Macau's
Chinese banking industry,
at such a crecial time,
I can only urge everyone
to unite,
stabilize the Hong Kong dollar,
and secure this batch of supplies.
I implore you.
Mr. Liang,
we all understand the duty
to resist the war
and save the nation.
But the reality is,
Wing Lung Bank,
Tianxiang Bank, and Hengyi Bank
have already taken in
over 5 million Hong Kong dollars.
Tai Fung Bank, being stronger,
has bought even more—
over 16 million Hong Kong dollars.
Yet at the current rate of decline,
even with the combined strength
of our 4 banks,
we may not be able to hold the line.
And we have no idea
how much selling pressure
there is in the market.
Fighting blindly like this
carries far too great a risk.
Xian, gentlemen,
HSBC has just made an announcement
regarding the Hong Kong dollar.
[New HKD notes are safe
to accept and use.]
The escaped British treasurer
is named Robert.
He was shot
and fell into the waters off Hong Kong's
Causeway Bay late last night.
The Hong Kong garrison
detained all vessels
and personnel in the area.
The search continued until this morning,
but his whereabouts remain unknown.
That doesn't necessarily mean
he fled to Macau, though.
Causeway Bay is known
for the highest number
of smuggling boats traveling
between Hong Kong and Macau.
It's possible a few slipped through.
General's orders are clear—
this man holds
the entire truth about the forced signing
of the Hong Kong dollars.
We must act with utmost caution.
Inform Huang Gongjie
to immediately launch
a comprehensive search
of all docks and coastal areas in Macau.
Yes, sir.
Listen—
dead or alive,
we need to find him.
Under no circumstances
can Robert be allowed
to leak any information.
Yes, sir!
[East Asia Hotel]
Hurry up, hurry.
What do you think?
I'm just worried—
we stopped buying,
and just then the news came out.
Isn't that too much of a coincidence?
Something doesn't feel
right to me either.
What if this batch of Hong Kong dollars
amounts to more than 10 million?
Are you suggesting HSBC
released false information?
That can't be, right?
With HSBC's reputation,
plus the confirmation from Mr. Grayburn
and Mr. Qiao…
Given their stature,
would they truly disregard
all professional ethics
and tell such an enormous lie?
But they are, after all,
in Japanese hands now.
The press conference
was also held jointly
with the Japanese.
The Japanese
are capable of anything.
You two, keep searching,
keep at it.
Mr. Huang.
How much for this wine?
This wine…
Fei.
[British Pound: 80.05]
[French Franc: 4.13]
[HKD: 3.18]
3.18.
Apart from some small retail investors,
there are no major sell orders.
Just as expected.
Xian, Wan Qi,
you can finally set your minds
at ease now, right?
I propose
that this afternoon,
all four of us join forces
to prop up the market
and push the Hong Kong dollar above 3.4.
-I agree.
-Agreed.
Xian,
this afternoon's battle
isn't just about
recouping our
massive losses—
it also has a direct bearing
on Mr. Liang's contract
and the overall Resistance effort
at the front.
Mr. He, do you still have any concerns?
If that's the case,
I'll personally monitor
the exchange this afternoon.
That way, if anything changes,
we can adapt on the spot.
Good, that puts me
even more at ease.
Chang, I saw you from across the way.
What's up?
Come and see for yourself.
Alright.
I'm heading out for a bit.
I'll be back
before the afternoon session opens.
Where to?
Kiang Wu Elementary School.
Yinwan reads the Xiangdao Daily
every day.
If she finds out
her brother is collaborating
with the Japanese…
I understand.
Go quickly and come back soon.
Alright.
Here you go.
Did you just find him?
Stop joking. The smuggling sampans
from Hong Kong
often deliver goods for the gang.
Late last night, this one
set out from Causeway Bay,
and it was almost to Macau
when they found this foreigner
in the cabin.
No idea who he is—
all they know is that last night,
the Japanese were causing
a huge commotion in Causeway Bay,
detaining hundreds of boats,
probably all for him.
Huang Gongjie's men
are also out in full force,
searching for him.
This man isn't ordinary.
Take a look.
He's seriously injured,
shot twice.
He keeps mumbling incoherently
in a foreign language.
You're the only one
who can understand him.
What's your name?
Who are you?
HSBC Hong Kong...
Yea, that was what he kept saying.
What does it mean?
Oh, okay, okay.
He said HSBC and the Hong Kong dollar.
Since the Japanese
are making such a fuss over him,
this person must be very important.
Master Huang,
please take him
to Dr. Ke right away.
I'll go find Xian.
No one understands HSBC
and the Hong Kong dollar better than Xian.
Alright, I'll find a rickshaw.
Okay.
Don't run so fast.
Xian.
Goodbye, Miss Qiao.
Goodbye. Wei,
you can go now.
Yinwan.
Class is over?
Class is over.
Did you come to see me?
Is something the matter?
It's nothing.
I was just passing by
and thought I'd drop in.
Come on in and have a seat.
How come the school janitor
didn't deliver the newspaper today?
Probably too busy.
Xian, have a seat.
I'll get you some water.
Hurry up, hurry up.
Hurry up!
Make way, make way.
Chief,
I just heard from the rickshaw drivers
over there
that someone carried a person
wrapped tightly in blankets
onto a rickshaw—
there was blood on the blanket.
Where did they go?
Headed west.
After them.
Yes, sir.